Curses Library Functions ecurs_pad



NAME
     ecurs_pad - create and display curses pads

SYNOPSIS
     #include <curses.h>

     WINDOW *newpad(int nlines, int ncols);

     WINDOW *subpad(WINDOW *orig, int nlines, int ncols,
         int begin_y, int begin_x);

     int prefresh(WINDOW *pad, int pminrow, int pmincol,
         int sminrow, int smincol, int smaxrow, int smaxcol);

     int pnoutrefresh(WINDOW *pad, int pminrow, int pmincol,
         int sminrow, int smincol, int smaxrow, int smaxcol);

     int pechochar(WINDOW *pad, chtype ch);

DESCRIPTION
     The newpad() routine creates and returns a pointer to a new
     pad data structure with the given number of lines, nlines,
     and columns, ncols. A pad is like a window, except that it
     is not restricted by the screen size, and is not necessarily
     associated with a particular part of the screen. Pads can be
     used when a large window is needed, and only a part of the
     window will be on the screen at one time. Automatic
     refreshes of pads (for example, from scrolling or echoing of
     input) do not occur. It is not legal to call wrefresh with a
     pad as an argument; the routines prefresh() or pnoutrefresh()
     should be called instead. Note that these routines require
     additional parameters to specify the part of the pad to be
     displayed and the location on the screen to be used for the
     display.

     The subpad() routine creates and returns a pointer to a
     subwindow within a pad with the given number of lines,
     nlines, and columns, ncols. Unlike subwin, which
     uses screen coordinates, the window is at position (begin_x,
     begin_y) on the pad. The window is made in the middle of the
     window orig, so that changes made to one window affect both
     windows. During the use of this routine, it will often be
     necessary to call touchwin or touchline on
     orig before calling prefresh().

     The prefresh() and pnoutrefresh() routines are analogous to
     wrefresh and wnoutrefresh except that they
     relate to pads instead of windows. The additional parameters
     are needed to indicate what part of the pad and screen are
     involved. pminrow and pmincol specify the upper left-hand
     corner of the rectangle to be displayed in the pad. sminrow,
     smincol, smaxrow, and smaxcol specify the edges of the
     rectangle to be displayed on the screen. The lower
     right-hand corner of the rectangle to be displayed in the
     pad is calculated from the screen coordinates, since the
     rectangles must be the same size. Both rectangles must be
     entirely contained within their respective structures.
     Negative values of pminrow, pmincol, sminrow, or smincol are
     treated as if they were zero.

     The pechochar() routine is functionally equivalent to a call
     to addch followed by a call to refresh, a call to waddch
     followed by a call to wrefresh, or a call to waddch followed
     by a call to prefresh(). The knowledge that only a single
     character is being output is taken into consideration and,
     for non-control characters, a considerable performance gain
     might be seen by using these routines instead of their
     equivalents. In the case of pechochar(), the last location
     of the pad on the screen is reused for the arguments to
     prefresh().

RETURN VALUES
     Routines that return an integer return ERR upon failure and
     an integer value other than ERR upon successful completion.

     Routines that return pointers return NULL on error.

SEE ALSO
     ecurses

NOTES
     The header <curses.h> automatically includes the system
     headers <stdio.h>, <stdarg.h>, and <sys/types.h>.

